### How can I use Promise?

In [Promise Part I](), I gave a general overview on why `Promise` would be such a lifesaver when dealing with async operations in JavaScript. 

Now let's look into how we can go about utilizing this amazing feature.

#### Constructing a Promise Instance

`Promise` turns an async operation into an instance through `Promise constructor`.

`Promise constructor` takes a callback function as an argument, and that callback function takes in two functions called `resolve` and `reject`.

```js
var promiseInstance = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  
  // async operation here
  
  if (/* async operation succeeds */) {
    resolve(/* result */);
  } else { /* async operation fails */
    reject(/* failure reason */);
  }
});
```

The callback function passed in as an argument in `Promise constructor` does async operations inside, and invokes `resolve` with the result of async operation passed in as its argument if the operation was successful. `reject`, on the other hand, is invoked with the failure reason when the operation fails.



Let's fill in some blanks and make the above code look more legitimate.

(below example is from [poiemaweb](https://poiemaweb.com/es6-promise#3-프로미스의-생성))

```js
const promiseAjax = (method, url, payload) => {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xhr.open(method, url); // method: kind of task, url: place where I can find this info
    xhr.setRequestHeader('Content-type', 'application/json'); 
    xhr.send(JSON.stringify(payload));

    xhr.onreadystatechange = function () {
      // if fetch operation is not complete, ignore.
      if (xhr.readyState !== XMLHttpRequest.DONE) return;

      if (xhr.status >= 200 && xhr.status < 400) {
        // call resolve method to pass the result
        resolve(xhr.response); // Success!
      } else {
        // call reject method to pass the error message
        reject(new Error(xhr.status)); // Failed...
      }
    };
  });
};

promiseAjax('GET', 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1')
```

`promiseAjax` stores a function that returns a new `Promise` instance. 

The result of the async operation is passed into `resolve` method if the operation is successfully carried out. If the operation fails, the error message is passed into `reject` method.

We must be able choose what to do with result or the error message, and this is where `.then` and `.catch` method come into play.

#### Handling result and error of a Promise instance

##### .then

The above async function passes the result into `resolve` method. This means that `promiseAjax('GET', 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1')` this line of code is referencing to a newly created `Promise` instance that is passing the result via `resolve` method.

The result can be handled by chaining `.then` method to the `Promise` instance. 

`then` method takes up to two arguments, which are both callback functions. The first callback is invoked when `resolve` is invoked in the `Promise` instance, and the second callback is invoked when `reject` is invoked in the `Promise` instance.

`then` method by default returns a `Promise` instance.

Depending on the return value of the callback/handler, the `Promise` returned by `then` either resolves or rejects with the returned value. There are several cases regarding this. Check [MDN .then](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/then#Return_value) for the list of behaviors.

```js
promiseAjax('GET', 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1')
      .then(function (result) {
  	      		return JSON.parse(result);
      			}, 
            function (errorMessage) {
  						 return console.error(errorMessage);
						});
```

The first callback in `then` receives `result` that was passed from the `Promise` instance from `promiseAjax`.  The callback then returns JSON.parse(result). `Promise` instance returned by `then` gets resolved with this return value of the callback! 

This can be quite a lot to take in so let's divide and conquer.

1. `.then` method returns a `Promise` instance
2. A `Promise` instance should `resolve` or `reject` depending on the outcome of the task.
3. If the callback returns a value, the above `Promise` instance created by `then` method resolves with that returned value of the callback. (There are also cases where the callback returns nothing, or throws an error, etc.)

Interesting right? 

What if the `Promise` instance that `then` is being invoked has already been rejected?  

No worries! According to MDN, if a handler function returns an already rejected promise, the promise returned by `then` gets rejected with that promise's value as its value.

There's a whole list on what happens to the `Promise` instance returned by `then` when either the callback is called, so make sure to check it for yourself.



##### .catch

We have already seen that `then` 's second argument, a callback that is invoked when `Promise` instance invokes `reject`, \"catches\" error. However, this callback will only "catch" the errors that occur in async operations (a.k.a. when `reject` is invoked). However, it is possible that errors occur inside `then` methods as well (when `Promise` instance created by `then` doesn't invoke `reject`). And that's when  `catch` can become handy. 

```js
promiseAjax('GET', 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1')
  .then(JSON.parse)
  .then(render)
  .catch(console.error);
```

(code example from [poiemaweb]([https://poiemaweb.com/es6-promise#3-%ED%94%84%EB%A1%9C%EB%AF%B8%EC%8A%A4%EC%9D%98-%EC%83%9D%EC%84%B1](https://poiemaweb.com/es6-promise#3-프로미스의-생성)))



#### Other Promise methods

##### Promise.resolve & Promise.reject

`Promise.resolve` and `Promise.reject` turns a value into a `Promise` instance.

```js
const resolvedPromise = Promise.resolve([1, 2, 3]);
resolvedPromise.then(console.log); // [ 1, 2, 3 ]

//above is same as below

const resolvedPromise = new Promise(resolve => resolve([1, 2, 3]));
resolvedPromise.then(console.log); // [ 1, 2, 3 ]
```

```js
const rejectedPromise = Promise.reject(new Error('Error!'));
rejectedPromise.catch(console.log); // Error: Error!

//above is same as below

const rejectedPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => reject(new Error('Error!')));
rejectedPromise.catch(console.log); // Error: Error!
```

(code example from [poiemaweb](https://poiemaweb.com/es6-promise#71-promiseresolvepromisereject))



There's also `Promise.all` and `Promise.race`, but I will not go into detail on what these methods do.

These are also very interesting methods in `Promise`, so check them out for yourself! 

You can begin here:  [MDN Promise.all](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/all), [MDN Promise.race](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/race).

